---
date: 2017-03-27T15:47:05+01:00
title: Tyk Pump Configuration
menu:
  main:
    parent: "Tyk Configuration Reference"
weight: 4
---

The Tyk Pump is our Open Source analytics purger that moves the data generated by your Tyk nodes to any back-end.  By moving the analytics into MongoDB, it allows the Tyk Dashboard to display traffic analytics across all your gateways.

### Supported Backends
- MongoDB (Used by Tyk Dashboard)
- CSV
- Elasticsearch (2.0+)
- Graylog
- InfluxDB
- Moesif
- Splunk
- StatsD
- DogStatsD
- Hybrid (Tyk RPC)
- Prometheus
- Logz.io
- Kafka

### Configuration

Please visit the public [GitHub Readme](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-pump) for instructions on installing and configuring the various Pump backends.

#### Tyk Dashboard

The Tyk Dashboard uses the `mongo-pump-aggregate` collection to display analytics. This is different than the standard `mongo` pump plugin that will store individual analytic items into MongoDB. The aggregate functionality was built to be fast, as querying raw analytics is expensive in large data sets. See [Pump Dashboard Config](/docs/tyk-configuration-reference/tyk-pump-dashboard-config/) for more details.

### Capping analytics data

Tyk Gateways can generate a lot of analytics data. Be sure to read about [capping your Dashboard analytics](/docs/analytics-and-reporting/capping-analytics-data-storage/)

### Sharding analytics to different data sinks

In a multi-organisation deployment, each organisation, team, or environment might have their preferred analytics tooling. This capability allows Tyk-Pump to send analytics for different organisations or APIs to different places. E.g. Org A can send their analytics to MongoDB + DataDog. But Org B can send their analytics to DataDog + expose the Prometheus metrics endpoint.

It is also possible to put a blacklist in-place, meaning that some data sinks can receive information for all orgs, whereas other data sinks will not receive OrgA’s analytics if blacklisted.

## Configuration
This feature adds a new configuration field in each pump called `filters` and its structure is the following:
```
"filters":{
  "api_ids":[],
  "org_ids":[],
  "skip_api_ids":[],
  "skip_org_ids":[]
     }
```
The fields `api_ids` and `org_ids` works as whitelists (APIs and orgs where we want to send the analytics records) and the fields  `skip_api_ids` and `skip_org_ids` works as the opposite (blackslits). 

The priority is always blacklisted configurations over whitelisted.

An example of configuration would be:
 ```
"csv": {
  "type": "csv",
  "filters": {
    "org_ids": ["org1","org2"]
  },
  "meta": {
    "csv_dir": "./bar"
  }
},
"elasticsearch": {
  "type": "elasticsearch",
  "filters": {
    "skip_api_ids": ["api_id_1"],
    },
  "meta": {
    "index_name": "tyk_analytics",
    "elasticsearch_url": "https://elasticurl:9243",
    "enable_sniffing": false,
    "document_type": "tyk_analytics",
    "rolling_index": false,
    "extended_stats": false,
    "version": "6"
  }
}
```
With this configuration, all the analytics records related to `org1` or `org2` will go to the `csv` backend and everything but analytics records from `api_id_1` to `elasticsearch`.